# Extended-Investigation-2025
The Youtube community sentiment analysis appended/related files

## Abstract

As truth becomes a rarity rather than the expectation in the increasingly digital age, misinformation is becoming a progressively more severe threat to public safety - and democracy. A common method of spreading misinformation is from false scientific pretenses, proposing alternatives to established science through a guise of professionalism or credibility. This type of pseudoscientific content is shared primarily through social media nowadays, yet little research has been conducted on the social relationship between pseudoscience content creators and their audience. In order to properly gauge the creation, growth and beliefs of online pseudoscience communities, research must be done to understand how these communities function and operate. This research aims to investigate how language used in these pseudoscience communities can reflect the internal workings of social media spaces where misinformation and conspiracy theories are shared. An observational case study method was chosen due to the inherent distrust of science and institutions that these communities harbour, limiting the veracity of survey data if collected through direct contact methods. This methodology collected comments and transcripts of videos, then used Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoning (VADER) analysis to illuminate the intention behind engagement in pseudoscience social media spaces. The hypothesis, that these spaces allow for community building for people who feel ostracised or left behind by mainstream science, was mostly supported in the findings, while an initial prediction that the average sentiment across all comments and transcripts would be negative—given the spaces tend to be where patterns of persecution complexes and ‘underdog’ ideologies are popular—was not supported. This study’s analysis found its limitations deriving from the use of a fairly rigid sentiment analysis system that struggles to detect sarcasm, and the sentiment of community-specific words such as ‘globetard’. Future studies could further interrogate the data, using more complex systems such as MRSR or AI LLM’s (Large Language Models) to better identify patterns in data, across sentences and more nuanced implied understandings.
